Yesterday, families all across America
gathered together their loved ones
and to to give thanks.
We must be thankful for an America
The food in our tables, the family
and loved ones in our homes.
And the many blessings
that come from living
in the greatest nation on earth.
Today,
we can also be thankful of families
being recruited
and reunited
with loved ones
who have been held hostage
for nearly 50 days.
Beginning this morning,
under a deal reached by extensive U.S.
diplomacy, including numerous calls
I've made from the Oval Office to leaders
across the region
fighting in Gaza will halt for four days.
There's still also a structure to allow
a pause
to continue
for more than 50 hostages to be released.
That's our goal this morning.
I've been engaged with my team
as we began
the first difficult days of implementing
this deal.
It's only a start
but so far it's gone well.
Early this morning, 13
Israeli hostages were released,
including an elderly woman,
her grandmother
and mothers with their young children.
Some under the age of six years old.
Separately, several
Thai nationals and Filipino nationals
were also kidnaped by Hamas
on the seventh.
They were released as well.
All of
these hostages have
been through a terrible ordeal.
And this is the beginning
of a long journey of healing for them.
The teddy bear is waiting to greet
those children at the hospital
are a stark reminder of the trauma
these children have been through
and at such a very young age.
Jill and I are Jill's with me here,
keeping them all in our prayers today.
Today
today has been a product,
a lot of hard work
and weeks of personal engagement.
From the moment
Hamas kidnaped these people,
I, along with my team,
have worked around the clock
to secure their release.
We saw the first results of this ever
with the release of two American hostages
in late October,
followed by the release of two
Israeli hostages.
I've consistently pressed for a pause
in the fighting
for two reasons
to accelerate
and expand humanitarian assistance
going into Gaza
and to to facilitate
the release of hostages.
And over the past several weeks,
I've spoken repeatedly
with the emir of Qatar,
the President Sisi of Egypt,
and Prime Minister
Netanyahu of Israel
to help secure this deal,
to nail it down.
And I want to thank all three leaders
for their personal partnership
to get this done.
I spoke with the emir and President
el-Sisi, the prime minister
Netanyahu again on Wednesday
to confirm
the elements of the engagement.
As I said,
today's release
are the start of a process.
We expect more hostages
to be released tomorrow
and more
the day after, more the day after that.
Over the next few days,
we expect
that dozens of hostages
will be returned to their families.
We also remember all those
who are still being held.
And renew our commitment to work
for their release as well.
Two American women and 14 year old child,
Abigail who remains among those missing.
We also will not stop
until we get these hostages brought home
in an answer to their whereabouts.
I remain in personal contact
with the leaders of Qatar, Egypt
and Israel
to make sure this stays on track
and every aspect
of the deal is implemented.
You know,
this extended pause
in the fighting
brings a critical opportunity to deliver
much needed food,
medicine, water
and fuel to the civilians in Gaza.
And we are not wasting one single minute
since my trip to Israel last month.
I've been focused
on accelerating
the delivery
of humanitarian assistance to Gaza
in coordination with the United Nations
and the Red Cross.
I just spoke with my special envoy
for the Middle East
humanitarian issues, David Satterfield,
for an update.
And I've asked him to monitor
our progress hour by hour
and keep me personally informed.
From the beginning.
We put in place mechanisms
to prevent Hamas
from diverting these supplies.
And we're continuing that effort
to make sure
aid gets to the people who need it.
More than 200
trucks arrived
at the crossing point
in Egypt into Gaza today.
These trucks carry food and medicine
as well as fuel, fuel and cooking gas.
The fuel will be used
not only to power the trucks
delivering this lifesaving supplies,
but for desalinization,
for water wells, for hospitals,
and for bakeries.
And hundreds
more trucks are getting them
positioned as well,
ready to enter Gaza
over the coming days to support
the innocent Palestinians
who are suffering greatly
because of this war
that Hamas has unleashed.
Hamas doesn't give a damn about them.
We also look to the future.
As we look to the future,
we have to end this cycle of violence
in the Middle East.
We need to renew our resolve
to pursue this two-State solution,
where Israelis and Palestinians
can one day
live side by side in a two-State solution
with equal measure of freedom and dignity
to states for two peoples.
And it's more important now than ever.
Hamas unleashed this terrorist attack
because they fear
nothing more than Israelis
and Palestinians
living side by side in peace
in order to continue down the path
of terror and violence and killing war.
Did you give Hamas what they seek?
We can't do that.
So today,
let's continue to be thankful
for all the families who are now
and those
who will soon be brought together again.
And I want to once again
thank the emir of Qatar.
President Sisi of Egypt
and Prime Minister Netanyahu
for their partnership
to make what we've done
so far and possible
and for their continued leadership
as we all keep working
to implement this deal.
And over the coming days,
I'll remain engaged with leaders
throughout the Middle East
as we all work together
to build a better future for the region.
A future where this kind of violence
is unthinkable,
a future for all children and region.
Every child,
Jewish, Muslim, Christian,
Israeli, Palestinian, and Arab.
Grow up knowing only peace.
That's what we do.
We're waiting now.
We have just a matter.
I thought maybe even as soon
as by the time I got here,
but in the next hour
or so, we'll know what
the second wave of releases are.
And I'm hopeful that is sensible
as we anticipate.
So thank you all for listening.
I'll take a few questions.
Mr.
President, when will that first
American hostages be released
and so were included today?
We don't know when that will occur,
but we're going to be expected to occur,
and we don't know what
the list of all the hostages are
and when they'll be released.
But we know the numbers.
They're going to be released.
So it's
my hope and expectation would be soon.
And other ten Americans either
unaccounted for
or do not all of our conditions.
Are they all alive?
We don't know all the conditions.
Mr.
President, how long expected
this war is going to take?
Have you heard
Prime Minister Netanyahu's
exact timeline to say
I have encouraged
the prime minister to
to focus on
trying to reduce the number of casualties
while he is attempting
to eliminate Hamas,
which is a legitimate objective.
Yes, that's a difficult task.
And I don't know how long it will take.
My expectation
and hope is that as we move forward,
the rest of the Arab world in the region
is also
putting pressure on all sides
to slow this down,
to bring this to an end
as quickly as we can.
Mr.
President,
what are the chances of a truce
could be extended by a few days?
Or more?
I think the chances are real.
Mr.
President,
there are members of your party
who would like to see
conditions placed on aid to Israel.
What is your view on that?
They would like to see
the adoption
Well, I think that works well for it.
But I don't think
if I started off with that,
we haven't gotten to where we are today.
We have to take this
a piece of the time Mr.
President, you trust Hamas, but
I don't trust Hamas to do anything right.
I only trust Hamas to respond to pressure
from the center,
hoping to get cooperation
from Arab leaders.
What are you hearing from them
when you talk to them?
What do you want to see?
I'm hearing a lot,
but I'm not going to speak to it
right now.
There's an overwhelming desire
on the part of the region
to let me back up.
I cannot prove what I'm about to say.
But I believe one of the reasons
why Hamas struck when they did
was they knew that
I was working
very closely with the Saudis
and others in the region.
To bring peace to the region
by having recognition of Israel
and Israel's right to exist.
You may recall
when we did the G-20
about a little while ago,
I was able to get a resolution.
I made a statement passed through there
saying we're going to build a railroad
from Riyadh
all the way
through the Middle East
into into Saudi Arabia, Israel, etc.,
and all the way up to Europe,
not the not the railroad,
but being an underground pipeline
and then railroad.
The whole idea
is there's overwhelming interest.
And I think most Arab nations know it
and coordinating with one another
to change the dynamic in their region
for a longer term peace.
And that is
what I'm going to continue to work on.
Thank you all very, very much.
I appreciate it. Thank you.
Happy Thanksgiving to all
I hope you enjoy.